In this video we'll learn about storage distributed resource scheduler or storage.
Doris storage distress is based on data store clustering.
So we've already learned a little bit about ESX host clusters and how they can be used for things like
high availability and the IRS data store cluster is very similar.
It's just a logical grouping of data stores and these data stores may contain the files for many virtual
machines.
And as we add virtual machines the data stores may potentially become unbalanced.
So for example maybe some really storage intensive workloads have been placed on data store one or maybe
Data Store too is running low on space storage dress can automate load balancing across these data stores
and it uses storage of motion.
So just as a quick refresher here we see an ESX host with a virtual machine running on ESX.
I just want if I want to carry out a storage of motion what I'm doing is I'm taking all of the files
that belong to that virtual machine and are migrating them from one data source to another with no downtime.
That's what storage of the motion is.
So the virtual machine continues to run on the same host.
But all of the underlying files are being moved from one storage location to another.
That's what stored motion is and storage V motion is the underlying technology behind storage directs
so storage devices going to do is it's going to automatically storage Wii motion virtual machines around
for the purposes of balancing both capacity usage and latency.
So for example of datastore one is getting really full or if data store one has a lot of storage intensive
virtual machines that are generating a lot of traffic.
It may start moving virtual machines to other data stores to even out that workload.
Now there may be certain circumstances in which this can create some problems.
Right.
So for example here we see two virtual machines domain control or one and domain control or two.
And these are redundant.
Right.
We don't want both of our domain controllers to be down at any time no matter what.
But if we turn over control to storage distress it could potentially move those domain controllers to
the same data store.
And if that data store fails we've now lost both of our domain controllers.
So we can use something called an anti finity rule to ensure that those domain controllers are kept
separated.
We can even set up an affinity or anti-fan and your rules for individual virtual machines disks to keep
them on separate data stores or to keep them together.
But you probably don't have to do a whole lot of that by default if you create a virtual machine with
multiple desks all disks will be stored on the same data store.
So one of the Handy things about creating a data store cluster is you can put a data store in a maintenance
mode.
So let's say the data store on the far left is on one storage device and the other two data stores are
on other storage devices and maybe I need to take down a storage device like maybe a fiber channel storage
array to do some sort of patching.
Well I can put that data storage maintenance mode and what storage diarists will do is it will automatically
evacuate that data store for me with no service interruption.
So now I can go ahead and take that data store on the left down I can reboot my fiber channel storage
array do whatever maintenance I need to do.
And when it comes back that storage load will be rebalanced according to storage Doris's recommendations.
So it definitely helps with things like maintenance and the first step is to create a data store cluster.
Now you have to bear in mind that virtual machines are going to be moving around from one data store
to another.
So you want data stores that are going to act similar and that means data stores with similar performance
characteristics and data stores with similar policies like for example if one data stores replicated.
We don't want our virtual machine automatically moving off of it to a data store that is not replicated.
We can't mix and Fs and VM data datasource in a cluster and we want to make sure that any shared storage
within that cluster is available to as many hosts as possible.
Now when we're setting up a storage de-risk cluster it's very similar to address cluster for our hosts
in that we can choose the level of automation in manual mode.
When I create a storage de-risk cluster it's not going to do anything automatically when it's going
to do is simply provide me recommendations say this virtual machine should move from this data store
to this data store that's going to give me the option of whether or not I want to carry out those recommendations
in partially automated mode when we create a new virtual machine.
We'll create it on a cluster.
When we create a virtual desk for example we'll just pick the cluster and and partially automated mode
storage Deros will pick the optimal data store for that virtual disk.
So in partially automated mode we're kind of halfway there.
It's storage DRM isn't going to automatically move anything anywhere but when we're creating a new virtual
machine new virtual disk storage device we'll decide where to put it.
And then finally we have fully automated mode where our storage de-risk cluster will automatically use
storage of emotion to migrate virtual machines from one data store to another.
Again for the purposes of load balancing capacity and latency.
So in this lesson we learned about some of the following topics where we definitely gave you a very
concise description of storage Deros.
Again I would recommend some of the more in-depth classes if you want to learn more.
We've got the Vee's for foundations course coming out soon and we'll also be releasing a viz for a professional
level course as well on you to me.
So all of those courses will take you much deeper into some of these features.
So anyways in review in this lesson we learned about the following topics we can have multiple data
stores associated to create a data store cluster and then we can monitor space usage and IO latency
across that data store cluster and carry out recommendations.
Very similar to dress that we use with our hosts and carry out these recommendations and use storage
Wii motion to migrate virtual machines around.
We can always add more data stores to a data store closer as we need to.
And again the underlying mechanism for these moves is storage via motion and we can also configure some
affinity or anti affinity rules to keep virtual machines either together on the same data store or an
anti affinity role to keep them apart.